Examples:

  macscope ipc 1234
  macscope ipc example
  macscope ipc --json 1234
  macscope ipc --full 1234
  macscope ipc --json --full 1234

Purpose:

  Show a process's local IPC descriptors and Mach port namespace.
  Also available as the ipc entry in macscope tui.

Native tools:

  ps / pgrep: resolve a PID or the newest matching process name.
  lsmp -p <pid> -j <temporary-file>: Mach port rights and available queue/peer details.
  lsof -nP -a -p <pid> -F0pftan: Unix sockets, pipes, FIFOs, POSIX shared memory,
  and POSIX semaphore descriptors.

Output interpretation:

  Mach port names belong to the target's namespace, not to the TCP/UDP port range.
  receive accepts messages, send/send_once sends, port_set groups receive rights,
  and dead_name refers to a port that no longer exists.
  Queue is the queue limit, Queued is the message count. A dash means unavailable;
  zero means the native tool reported zero. Send-right queue details, when available,
  describe the receiving port. Peer PID/name and object type are shown only when
  provided by lsmp. Port-set members are nested in JSON and listed as member rows
  in text. Ports Listed counts top-level names, excluding those member rows.

  Each source reports ok, partial, or unavailable, plus warnings.
  Access failures never mean that the target has zero ports or descriptors.
  If both sources are unavailable, the command prints its report and exits nonzero.

Permissions and privacy:

  Requires macOS. Read-only; does not invoke sudo or alter security policy.
  lsmp requires task-read access. Root can improve visibility and peer resolution,
  but protected processes can remain inaccessible. Available lsof results survive
  a Mach collection failure. A secure temporary JSON file is removed after lsmp.
  Human output redacts usernames in /Users/ paths and escapes terminal controls.
  --full preserves paths and includes raw command stdout/stderr.
  JSON preserves unredacted parsed fields; --json --full adds raw commands.

Limitations:

  A snapshot, not an IPC message trace, message-payload decoder, XPC service-name
  map, or system-wide IPC inventory. Anonymous shared-memory mappings and System V
  IPC objects are outside the lsof descriptor view. Native tools may omit endpoints
  or peers due to access policy or process changes during collection.
  Name lookup follows proc's newest-match behavior; supply a PID for an exact target.
